and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show I'm your host
Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't done
so yet check out my weekly email where I
share actionable website and B2B
marketing tips useful podcasts goodies
and resources and much much more to kick
off your week with a bag you can give it
a shot over at businessgrowth dot emails
join me today I've got Fernando Amarillo
Fernando's the CMO over at raidu welcome
to the show sir how are we doing
as I'm great to see you again thank you
so much for inviting me doing good and
hoping I can share some of my ABM uh and
and general B2B marketing experience
with you in your audience excellent very
pleased to have you sir so with that
we're going to be talking exactly how
our audience can learn how to drive real
B2B growth with ABM account based
marketing
so let's dive straight in Fernando for
anyone that's not heard of ABM before
what is your high level overview of what
ABM really means
so IBM obviously account based marketing
uh it has become as a term a very
popular over
um the last few years some say driven by
the vendors of ABM software that kind of
defines the category
um I think that it has been around
before that
means
getting a named group of accounts so we
know exactly who are the companies that
we want to have as customers it's
defined by name company a b c and d
we're marketing to those companies they
can be prospects it can be with the
objective of acquisition of new
customers they can be existing customers
as well it can be with you with the
objective of retaining them and
expanding expanding them uh that's
really the key factor is that we know
who those accounts are so we develop
marketing campaigns targeting them
got it
great summary so in terms of the
businesses that consider an ABM approach
do you in your opinion do you have to be
of a certain size a certain structure to
actually make this type of strategy
worthwhile
so we can break it down a little bit
more in terms of the definition of ABM
on I think different levels and and not
all levels are for all businesses in
terms of maturity
um I think there's the one to one ABM
campaign where you're really creating a
marketing campaign just for one account
that probably requires some some level
of maturity and dimension if we're doing
uh marketing campaigns just get one
customer you probably have resources to
do a bunch of them right
um and and you need to have a kind of
customer as a Target that is going to
bring you a lot of Revenue just that
individual Customer because that will
justify doing a marketing campaign just
for them that's a one-to-one it's it's
not supposed to be shown to anyone else
it's not supposed to drive results with
anyone else just that one customer
um then you have the one to few and then
you bundle a group of Target accounts
and one campaign can be by vertical for
example
one campaigns suitable for that group
and that's I think where most of the
businesses will will operate in is the
one to few campaign
and then you can also argue that there's
the one too many
um where you just have like thousands of
accounts that you're targeting with an
ABM campaign and I think the the
software vendors will will pitch that
but I just call that regular marketing
just like demand generation if you're
targeting thousands of accounts at once
with the same campaign I think it's just
doing a regular marketing companion not
an ABM campaign got it okay so there's a
few ways you can go about an ABM
campaign one-to-one want a few one to
many and you mentioned before that you
can actually do it to either existing
accounts so existing clients you're
perhaps already working with and also
perhaps new accounts that you want to
break into what would be the difference
in terms of mindset approach
yes it really depends on on those
objectives right you have objectives in
most uh B2B sales businesses you have
your acquisition or new logo acquisition
objectives and you have your retention
and expansion objectives and depending
on where you are as a business and where
what your strategy is you will focus
more on one or the other and ABM can
help you with both if you have a certain
type of customer as a Target that has a
certain Dimension that justifies ABM
strategy it can work for both goals it's
really as a business what are you trying
to achieve and where you want to put
your resources I got a real eye-opener
on what ABM can be when I had a
conversation with someone leading an ABM
team on a big corporate
where their existing customers like
their top 20 customers were worth a
million per year each customer
so they had an ABM team that only
exclusively worked on existing accounts
it was and it was like one marketer for
every two accounts so imagine 10
marketers doing work for those 20
accounts only with the goal of retaining
them and expanding them because each of
the accounts is worth a million per year
so it's worth doing this so that's how a
really really big business can look at
ABM for existing customers most startups
and smaller businesses look more for the
acquisition side of things and they as
they are growing they are more focused
on acquiring new business new logo so
they they will focus on these are the
customers that we don't have yet but we
want to have you find out who they are
you put the names on it and then you do
marketing campaigns for that
gotcha and yeah that makes sense I mean
if they're a large scale company and
they're going after these real high
ticket clients are retaining them
keeping them on board and maybe
upselling over time it makes sense
they're assigning a lot of resource and
budget to actually bring that in make
that happen
and when it comes to smaller size medium
more medium-sized businesses is there a
certain point where ABM Camp becomes
effective in your opinion Fernando I.E
your your life or your annual value
needs to be at least 20K for ads
actually to be of of you sort of
Wireless that is that hard to say would
you think
I I wouldn't say that's the criteria I
think it's more about who your Target
customer is that you make this make
sense or not regardless of the size that
you are it's more about what is the
profile uh your ideal customer profile
is one of the first things that you will
want to figure out you're trying to get
if you're still more earlier and still
trying to get your product Market fit
you need to understand who your ideal
customer is and depending on that
profile ADM could be the solution or not
so if your ideal customer is a certain
size of company
um and and you can clearly Identify some
criteria if you have Clarity on that if
you already have some idea of who is
your ideal customer you can translate
that into a list of companies because
you know the characteristics that define
them you can find out so this is
actually the list of companies that will
get the most value from our products
that will be easier to break into I I
know who I want as a customer and those
customers are already more like meat
market companies than probably an
account based marketing strategy will be
the most efficient way to go after them
if those customers are very very small
and you're actually going more on the
volume game you want a lot of them then
probably ABM is not the right strategy
because you need the numbers uh each of
them the ticket is going to be small you
just need a lot of them then probably an
inbound strategy a Content marketing
driven strategy SEO will make more sense
for you than ABM
yeah I was going to ask that's that's a
nice ad in terms of when you shouldn't
do ABM is that the only scenario when
you're looking at smaller businesses
perhaps prospects that you can capture
with an inbound approach or a bit more
of a mass marketing approach with any
other scenarios where you should should
not do ABM
well in terms of uh of target audience I
think that's that's the main reason not
to do it I guess in uh in terms of
having Clarity on our on your ICP
because it starts from that it starts
from selecting the account and if you're
choosing the wrong ones and so adding
some having that Clarity on your ICP
that you know the accounts that you're
choosing you have some confidence that
those are the right ones understanding
your your value proposition in your
products to know if I go with this
message to these companies the
probability of success is very high you
need to have that internal confidence
any and you need to have the internal
resources in terms so usually this is uh
it's called account based marketing but
it's it's marketing and sales so you
need to go together with marketing
campaigns and usually with outbound
activities to to go because since you
know who you want as a customer you can
you don't need to wait for them to come
to you you can just go to them and talk
to them right so usually there's an
outbound motion associated with it so
you need the team to execute you've done
this as you look we will discuss what
the Playbook looks like you need to have
to have the the resources in terms of
marketing advertising and tools but also
in terms of people and outbound and
sales to execute on that you need some
some maturity in terms of sales people
to go to you know slightly bigger
accounts so you need all of that in
place if you're not ready for that that
would also be a reason to not do it yeah
we've had a good question coming I don't
normally take questions but we've had
quite an interesting one on the LinkedIn
chat
um you mentioned outbound just then kind
of works together with ABM and we're
going to get into a bit more of the
weeds in a sec when we talk about how
play-by-play how you can put into piece
of the puzzle with an ABM strategy but
what is there a difference between ABM
and outbound are they the same thing or
do you have a separate team running
outbound calls and outbound emails or do
you have a set of marketers and a set of
sdrs that work together on ABM
that's a great question I think uh it
can be both it can be completely
separate or it can be the same depends
on how you set it up
um across the marketing and the sales
team in the organization
it can completely be separate if you
have a team doing outbound there is just
coming up with their own targets by
themselves running sequences and it's
not coordinated with other plays so if
that team is just by themselves as the
freedom to go and reach out to people
and just email LinkedIn message cold
call do whatever to get leads in the
door that's just outbound by itself it
can happen while you do an ABM campaign
at the same time or by itself it can be
separate things or you can say our
outbound strategy only makes sense as an
ADM campaign so all our outbound is
going to be assigned to an AVM campaign
and that's how we do outbound and that
makes sense as well
um and and that's probably from my side
how uh how I would do it all the
outbound would be associated with
the income
selection for outbound would be done
together with marketing and why not if
you're going to do outbounds coordinate
with marketing so that marketing is
doing a campaign as well and you have an
orchestration of the outbound that uses
everything that you have at your
disposal from marketing campaigns and
tools and strategies to the outbound as
well and run everything together so I
think can be both it's a matter of
choice how you want to do it got it yeah
I suppose it depends on the the
company's objectives and what they want
to get out of the ultimate like you
shared there so
with all that in mind
let's let's talk about some best
practices for an ABM play you mentioned
ICP earlier is that the first thing that
you should consider Fernando what is one
of the first
practices the first thing you need in
play before you start an ABM campaign
yes so I think the so for the ABN
campaign first step is account selection
but for the account selection a previous
step is knowing the ICP because that's
how you're going to choose the accounts
you want to choose your uh ideal future
customers to Target right so you need to
Define what that is first so typically
you do an ICP exercise
um before and that's a best practice as
you are developing any marketing
campaign understanding who is my ideal
customer so that is kind of a
prerequisite to doing the first step of
ADM which will be the account selection
in ICP by itself could be just um an
episode on that but I think it's it's
worth uh touching a little bit on best
practices to develop your ICP because I
see many times the same challenges when
we're talking ICP
and especially in startups and it's
where I've been working the most and I I
think there's one big challenge with ICP
which is looking at historical data
which is typically what the ICP process
would be is let's see who are our best
customers that we have right now who is
happiest with our products who went
faster through the sales cycle and let's
get more companies that are similar to
those because we will be more successful
there so you will have to look at your
data you have to look at your CRM and
you have to to try to understand
by country by company size by industry
vertical and by any other factor that
you can have a data point on let's try
to figure out who are the ones that we
get the more volume of leads that they
convert with the best conversion rate
that they go faster to the sales cycle
yeah that they retain the most after
they become customers that they have a
higher lifetime value that they have the
lowest cost of acquisition so that's a
lot of data you need to try to have
visibility on all of that which is a lot
and then try to break it down so that
you find those segments and you say okay
it's actually European companies from
100 to 500 employees in the tech
industry
are the best performing in all of those
metrics but all of and this is a very
good exercise to do and quite
challenging by itself but it's all based
on what has worked before
and a lot of times startups have very
ambitious goals that they they want to
go up market for example yeah so it's
not that it worked before but they
needed they need to make it work in the
future so sometimes I see this clash
between analyze the data and see what
worked or actually where we need to go
but we're not there yet but our
investors and our business requires that
we go in that direction so the date will
not tell you that this is was a good
move but you still want to make the move
and it's a strategic bet that you have
to take so balancing those things is
hard and based on that you need to
arrive at this is my one year or two
year plan in terms of the customers that
I want to get so this is going to be my
ICP and that you should do before you
start the ABM campaign right yeah so
with ICP that's some some nice advice
around those those metrics to look at
based on who you want to attract the
target market for the ABM campaign if
you have limited customers
if you're a fairly new company and you
want to do ABM
first of all should you do the ABM and
second of all if you have limited data
if you should do ABM what can you go off
do you just go off the metrics that you
think are good or that you're fun that
you're maybe maybe you're funded and
they're saying you need to hit this type
of ICP because they're going to generate
great Enterprise High ticket clients or
what would you recommend I mean new
companies and startups and in the
startup world and especially uh
venture-backed startups it's a it's a
big BET right you you you create and you
bring a new product to Market that maybe
no one asked for you have to believe
because you you need to come up with a
strategy based on what you believe in
your ideas your experience your
investors experience a lot of gut
feeling and you just need to go for it
and you know that a lot of them are
going to fail and you believe that yours
is the one that's going to succeed but
it's a lot of your own gut feeling and
personal bet that this is going to work
then you need to validate it constantly
as you're doing it you need to always
keep checking is this working what's the
feedback that I'm getting from the
market are the customers really liking
the thing that I thought was amazing or
not and adjust and adapt and pivot as
many times as you need and that's the
the startup life but I think it starts
with a personal bet from the founders
that this is valuable and this is going
to work and this is what we believe is
the type of customer that is going to
Value it with a lot of validation a lot
of a lot of you know and minimal viable
product goes in the market get feedback
from the customer adjust get more
feedback get feedback from the sales
team is it resonating or not not get
feedback from the product team and
really try to build that plane while you
are crashing down it's part of of the
adventure of being in a startup so you
don't really know any of those things
for sure you have limited data and you
have to work with it anyway yeah yeah
yeah so like basically saying put put
your theories to test constantly work or
feedback from marketing from sales from
the customer and refinement and you can
do this on a time frame you know so you
you can say okay we defined our ICP this
is going to be for the next year this is
the ICP uh we're gonna have to revisit
in one year and see uh if we want to
change or not and then you take that ICP
for the year and let's do an ABM
campaign for the quarter so for next
quarter let's get a hundred companies
that match this ICP and let's create a
marketing campaign in an outbound
campaign and go after them the next
quarter let's go after another 100 let's
do this four times and then let's
revisit the ICP as well again so if
you're in a very early and fast moving
startup you might need to iterate a lot
if you're in a more stable company then
you really know you have the data you
know what the ICP is and you don't need
to question yourself as much and it's
not a typical timeline that you
recommend for an ABM strategy a quarter
yes I think a quarter is good to execute
the Playbook
um you you want to to select
in the one to few I would say 100 200 a
few hundred accounts that usually you
can Group by geography and vertical and
some other criteria that in your
particular case might make sense
so you can create this three or four
groups maybe where you can go with more
personalized messages to them but then
you want to refresh you want to go then
you you need to validate is it working
or not and then you want to go after the
next group so yeah I would say a quarter
is good to run the advertising side of
it the outbound side of it and kind of
do the full cycle of the campaign you
might want to renew it for the next
quarter if you think there's still a lot
of potential in that one or you might
want to replace it with a fresh one and
then just go after the next group but I
think it's a good time also for the
learnings you see what plays worked what
didn't work and then you just start a
new one got it okay
so let's say we've put together our idle
client profile or we've got an idea of
maybe some hypothesis of some icps that
we're going to test out and see how it
goes with the marketing
what comes next what's the next play do
we start tracking ads on LinkedIn do we
check them on other social channels do
we get our outbound team going crazy on
the phone or what's the next step
so the next step is the next challenge
will be turning that into an actual list
of named accounts right because you
define a criteria and then you need to
find out what are the companies that
match this so you needed a provider you
need a kind of a database either a tool
a software or an agency or some provider
that's going to tell you from this
criteria these are the companies that
you need to go after and you should do
this already with marketing if marketing
and sales are going to work together on
the place they should be aligned from
the start so one mistake to avoid is
that only one of the teams chooses the
accounts and then from the start then
both teams will be working on them but
only one of them chose and the other
didn't have the buy-in so they should
agree from the start
if it's a hundred accounts these are the
names of the companies that's work let's
figure them out together let's go from
the ICP to the actual names so once you
figure out how to do that you got a list
of accounts
you have a few things that you can start
doing
there's account research you want to
know as much as possible about them so
that you can use it in your messaging so
you need to figure out who is going to
research these accounts now we know the
names of the companies
but there's a lot more
information that would be useful to have
what other software are they using that
maybe we have Integrations with it would
be good to know if they use it or not
um what um who are the people inside the
accounts you need kind of blueprints the
accounts in terms of
who are the decision makers that we need
to Target right this is all before you
start sending the messages right you
need to blueprint the account you need
to research as much as possible so that
you know who you're going to reach out
to and what kind of messaging is going
to resonate with them that you can
personalize so as soon as you know the
accounts you can kick off the research
um at the same time marketing can start
planning on the advertising part
typically the the online advertising
it's the easiest to do
um goes before the personalized Outreach
so you start showing them ads to the
people in those companies
um creating some awareness you can start
with an awareness campaign about your
company about the problem that you solve
anything that you want to start making
yourself visible to them so that when
you get to the Outreach
um part of the play it's not as cold
because they they already have been
seeing you for a while so depending on
the content that you have maybe you have
a great blog maybe you have a great
podcast let's say you have a podcast so
those people in those in those accounts
they should start seeing your podcasts
for a couple of weeks before someone
actually is going to connect with them
on LinkedIn for example so I would say
on one team is going to be doing account
research to prepare for the Outreach the
other team is going to be doing
advertising campaigns to warm it up warm
them up okay so let's go back a bit
we're researching your ideal client
we're late we're putting together all
the decision makers Within These Target
accounts that we've researched
is there a typical amount of
can we can we do a quick scenario if you
don't mind because I like to make this
part quite actionable mainly for for my
head as much of the audiences but let's
say I don't know we provide some kind of
we're a B2B SAS agency a SAS company
rather let's say we provide CRM to a
specific Niche maybe we provide CRM to
financial companies
um let's say in the US and EU and
we're we're mapping out decision makers
that are Financial CRM can help from our
Target account list
is there like a certain amount of
decision makers that we should map out
I.E are we going after let's say typical
CRM buyers I don't know or maybe on the
marketing side so we're putting like the
CMO the head of marketing the directive
marketing and the VP of marketing or are
there certain is there a magic number or
is it it depends
I think uh if you're going to use it to
to do the personalized Outreach like
email message LinkedIn message LinkedIn
connection LinkedIn message
um maybe you can have like five or six
for from an account that you're going to
send an individual message you don't
want to spam the whole company to it
will be weird
um but there's probably a few people
that are part of a buying committee
typically so you might or even in the
same Department sometimes the one that's
gonna sign the contract uh is the C
Level but the one that's going to
recommend and be the champion for the
product is the director or even below
that so you probably want to reach a few
different people inside the accounts and
and you need to have those people you
need to understand the kind of personas
that typically are in the buying
committee and what their rules are uh in
that buying decision so you can map out
let's say five or six people in the
account that you're actually going to go
and send them a personal message to them
you might map out a few more if you want
to use it as an advertising audience but
typically you probably don't need that
because LinkedIn would be
an obvious place to go to where you just
choose the company choose the department
choose the seniority and you have
yourself your audience so you don't
really need to map who the people are to
do that but when you want to call them
or send them a message you need to know
who they are so I would say between 5
and 10 maximum uh more than that seems
like it's already cannot be personalized
the message so you'll just be spamming
everyone with the same sequence and I
would do that okay
good stuff all right so five to ten
decision makers within an account Max
you started talking about advertising
and kind of putting together content
media maybe podcasts
um maybe visuals that these Target
decision makers in the accounts we want
to break into are going to see two weeks
or so before our outbound sales team
reach out to them what are some tips
when it comes to putting together the
messaging the media
that's actually going to resonate with
our idle clients that we want to
actually kind of get top of mind with
before sales start showing to them
yes so the the sales going to one person
can be like completely personalized for
that individual the marketing campaign
cannot go as personalized because you
need to create a sizable audience and
then have one campaign for that audience
right you're not doing the campaign just
for one company
so I think you need to group these
accounts that you selected in a way that
they have a few things in common so that
the message can really resonate with
them
even though you're targeting maybe 25
companies with the same campaign it
still feel like you're talking to me so
as you said uh if it's a financial if
the campaigns are the companies are all
in the financial services industry uh if
you know that they are a certain size if
you're if you know that your targets are
in a certain department so you can try
to send a message that feels like you
are talking to me you also you should
know your value proposition very well
which should be related to the Ambitions
or the Pains of this audience so you
want to make it as much as possible that
they look at it and then say yeah sure
this this is this is for me this is my
problem this is my pain this is what I
care about and that's where the you know
the creativity and the marketing side of
things
um is is required right that's that's
the
the marketing magic sources can you do
that can you take your product can you
take your audience and create a message
that really resonates and then makes you
say yes this this is for me that's where
your marketing team needs to shine and
your product marketing and your value
proposition needs to be really powerful
but the advantage is you're not doing
one marketing campaign for everyone in
the world you know that you're targeting
these companies that you selected
yourself you know why you selected them
so your message should be able to talk
to that it should help you in that
mission of creating the right marketing
message that resonates with them
what are some things that you should
avoid because I can think of a few but
when I see LinkedIn ads in general some
I find a spot on really really good
really well thought out and then others
are just on the opposite end awful
um what what should you avoid when it
comes to LinkedIn AD ctas should you
even put call to action in there so
that's probably one uh you should
probably not try to get to book a demo
or a sales call on that campaign uh
you're gonna have the sales team going
after them anyway so you don't really
need this is not the lead generation
campaign you don't need to end all your
ads with click here to book a demo it's
sometimes the marketing team is kind of
formatted like that so where do I put
the CTA where do they put the demo where
is the Forum it's not necessary that the
campaign has that goal the campaign can
be just awareness for example about your
podcast and if if they um you can go a
bit uh more top of the funnel with your
content because you're capturing their
attention you want them to notice you
you want them to probably consume some
of your content to understand what you
do and become interested become curious
about what you do and they don't need to
immediately request a demo that's fine
they can come back later when they get
your next campaign that can be a bit
more salesy or they can just reply to
your SDR when they actually reach out
because they are already curious so one
thing to avoid is that treat all the
campaigns as a demo booking campaign
it's not necessary and probably not
useful at this point
you might even not want someone to go
too early into the demo without enough
information because you might be burning
that possibility you want them to really
get to know you and get to understand
the problem you solve before they go in
the demo so don't do not rush into that
it's fine to create a just an awareness
campaign at first
okay
and that's helpful now in terms of sort
of creating awareness for the first two
weeks or so I think he said
yeah and then cells Reach Out is that
just saying to cells do what you want
give them a call give them an email give
them a LinkedIn message or is it a bit
more strategic than that it's more than
that so I one of the words that I like
on this uh Playbook definition is the
orchestration so it really is
orchestrated
um and it might you might build quite a
complex flow because it might be
conditional to other things you can just
make a sequence of actions and say so
two weeks advertising then one week
you're going to connect on LinkedIn with
everyone and like their posts and then
another week you're going to send them a
message on LinkedIn and another week
you're going to send them an email and
just do everything in sequence you can
be more sophisticated than that
and make it conditional to the previous
app
s
you can for example use a tool to check
if that company has been visiting our
website as they get the awareness
campaigns you might start to see while
these are these companies are engaging
with our ads and they have been visiting
our website and these are not
the next action might be different
according to what they did before so you
might say if they visit our website the
next step is a phone call if they didn't
the next step is a LinkedIn connection
so you you can do something quite
sophisticated if you start putting
conditions uh in the place you know all
the touch points that you have at your
disposal you know you have the LinkedIn
advertising you you have the LinkedIn
connection the the email Outreach you
can even use direct mail and and send a
letter or send a gift so you have all
these things that you can do you can
think of all of them and then it's
really about how to work a straighten in
a way that makes sense to reach our goal
which is to have a sales conversation
with this person and be able to talk
about your products as they become
interested in talking with sales so you
can really try a lot of different things
and I think you should be as creative as
possible and then just understand what
works and that's why the next quarter
you're going to do it better you're
gonna see what worked in the play and
you're going to make some adjustments
and make it better yeah yeah that will
make sense now is there
I like the word orchestration
and I like the idea of and this might
not be possible for organization
depending on the size of them but I like
the fact like you said if someone visits
the website then we can see the
companies maybe flicked on a few pages
they've spent five minutes session time
looking at maybe the offer maybe some
case studies a pricing page then it's
probably makes sense for a sales rep to
give them a call
um some companies might be able to do
that if they've got the relevant
software and time and outfit others
might not
um
but is there
a way to do this so that we can make
sure prospects are qualified enough to
speak to cells because as you mentioned
earlier you don't necessarily want to
force a demo down their neck if they're
not ready and then burn the opportunity
of what could be a potentially very
large and profitable account is there a
way to do that or are there any best
practices around doing that
so usually
qualifying the leads as two big aspects
one is the demographics in the
thermographics the other is the behavior
the good thing with ABM is that you
already qualified the companies that
those are your ideal customers so you
pre-qualify them while well purely
inbound you need to understand who is
this person that is asking for a demo is
it good or not this he already qualified
that this is the right customer that we
want to have so it's more about the
behavior is the level of awareness is
this the right moment the optimal moment
to have a sales call
um so as you said you can understand how
they have been engaging with our content
with our website you have intent data so
if you are going more sophisticated I
would say if they ask to have a call
then that's the right moment as soon as
they are the ones asking for it give let
go talk to them as fast as possible that
is the right moment so if they become
interested enough in your campaign and
in your efforts to go and ask for them
on your website then maximum priority go
and talk to them if you're pushing for
that and you want to know should I push
more is this the right moment to
continue to call them
um I think there's some intense data as
well that you can get around the web uh
for example for review websites uh if
you pay them you might know like this
company has been searching for you and
your competitors in this category and
you say these guys are in buying mode so
any data that you have that tells you
these guys are in buying modes tells you
yeah this is the right time to to to
talk to them and that's another source
of data that you can pull into your
orchestration is understanding
um are they looking for Solutions right
now yeah yeah okay so if they're sharing
High intent like you say if they're
looking at review sites spending a
decent amount of time on your website
looking at specific pages that show that
they're they're about there
um gotcha gotcha okay
so is that is that the Crux of it
Fernando is there
in in terms of apart from kind of
analyzing the data so let's say you've
done this for a quarter and maybe we've
seen some success in terms of the
accounts that we're targeting maybe
we've got some of them over the line is
it just a case of analyzing what's
working well making tweaks over there
more things that we've not discussed
that we should be looking out for and
tweaking or changing
yes so I think the
the most tricky part about this is
getting all the different teams
uh aligned on this because it is
cross-functional
it requires sales and marketing and sdrs
two together on this
so if you are doing it for the first
time you kind of whoever is the champion
in the organization that wants to do
this kind of needs to prove that it
works and that it works that it works
better than other ways often just purely
inbound or then just outbound by itself
so I I think you need you need those
successes those early successes you need
to be able to measure and to prove like
the conversion rate of doing this
orchestrated approach is much higher
than just sending sequences to to
everyone
um so I think it's it there's an
internal challenge if you're gonna
implement this in our organization that
didn't do it before to get all the teams
on board because the orchestration
parked on paper
um is is very pretty but that means a
lot of people working together and
coordinated and that people that are on
teams that have different priorities and
they need to make sure that they are
working together on this and everyone
um as the same buy-in and it's going to
execute properly so I think there's a
lot of organizational challenge to
making ABM work because everyone needs
to work together on it as soon as you
see some success and everyone sees it's
actually better this way then it's more
about let's do better campaigns and what
is better is better messaging more
resonating better landing pages better
flows
um you know better across all the touch
points creating better emails better
messages and which is testing and seeing
what works what gets the best response
and really focus on the campaign and try
to do the best campaign as possible but
I think before that the organizational
challenge is the first one that you need
to overcome
yeah yeah for sure to me it sounds like
it's a tricky one because it's like when
organizations when marketers B2B
companies try to start a demand
generation campaign and to create new
demand for the company which in many
situations can be quite difficult
depending on kind of who you're trying
to convince whether that's the founder
to see Suite whoever
um because part of the play that you
shared sounds a little bit like demand
gen so when it comes to picking out your
target accounts and then putting top of
the funnel content up there whether that
is some kind of podcast snippet around a
useful tip that your target market might
find interesting or maybe it's talking a
bit more about the problem that you fix
or sharing something useful or linking
them to a case study that kind of stuff
sounds a bit like a demand gen play but
when organizations have perhaps been
running outbound for years and years
whether their team are hitting the
phones or hitting the email and they
know they can get X percentage or x
amount of prospects they they talk to
you into a demo but then they hear about
an ABM play that might cost thousands of
dollars just to get the first process
running to iron out the data and then
get the ads running and then try this
out for a quarter before they can test
how well it works and then get the demos
so I can see that on a um founder or
whoever kind of makes the decisions on
these kind of things it can be probably
quite a
tricky one depending on how educated you
are on how this play works right
yeah but I think there's there's a lot
of there's a lot of Education by now a
lot of it because of the ABM software
vendors that dedicated the markets a lot
and by using their own tools and their
own marketing knowledge they did that a
lot so I think these days
um if you talk to investors that are you
know in the board of a startup and
guiding them and telling them this is
how you go to market are you doing this
are you doing that
if they are targeting a certain size of
company if they are targeting mid market
and Enterprise they will ask you are you
doing ABM and why are you not doing APM
if you're not I think that by now
um this is common knowledge that if if
you have that kind of ICP you need that
kind of go to market motion they will
ask you yes are you doing inbound are
you doing outbound what are you what are
your results in in either but they will
ask you about ABM I think there's a lot
of awareness now on the markets on on
the B2B space about ABM as a way to go
to acquire a certain type of customers
that this will not be so hard to sell to
the leadership
um at this point at the same time that
we see the performance on just purely
outbound getting worse and worse and
worse to a point where I think now if
you just stick with that Playbook you
know that you're not going to get far so
you really all the teams wanted to do
something better than that because they
know this is not going to work
do you think that ABM with the play that
you've just shared with us all is more
effective than a demand generation play
well you need to define a demand
generation play there's a lot to talk
about I know I just wanted to be
controversial
I'm thinking about what the little
LinkedIn definition of demand generation
yeah it varies each day right we could
argue about that as well so so what do
you mean by that
well it like you say if if you listen to
LinkedIn and the post that you see in
the feed each day it probably vary by
the day
um I suppose my understanding of demand
generational demand creation is
creating
awareness to potential prospects that
may be interested in what you do but are
not in buying mode just now so whether
that is organic content or paid media
and then building an awareness for the
problem you solve
the solution that you provide So
eventually when they are in Market
you're the brand or company that's top
of mind because you've been helpful
educational useful to them over the last
several months years
channels they hang out on whether it's
LinkedIn YouTube Tick Tock whatever the
heck it is and then when they're ready
to buy you're the one that's front of
mind yes I'm very aligned I'm very
aligned with that definition uh and I
think it
a lot of times it goes down it goes back
to some basic even common sense it's a
basic marketing concepts but even basic
common sense that what you just
described just makes sense if you want
to get customers what's doing what you
just described it's just basic common
sense that's that's how you go if you
want to build a brand and you want to
get customers and they are not buying
right now there's other ways where you'd
go with you know the demand capture
they're looking for you right now this
is where you need to be sure but then if
we want to go after all the other ones
the way to describe it makes perfect
sense I think a lot of times these
things overlap in many ways and work
together and it's not one or the other
and as you just said the way that I
describe the IBM plays there's a lot of
things in common so what is the
difference is that I Define a much
smaller more targeted audience for this
same activities because the first thing
you need to know in their demand
generation play as well is who is our
Target but you probably could Define a
much broader Target of all the marketing
agencies in the world and I'm telling
you let's pick that on 100 that are most
likely to convert
part of the play is the same you build
maybe your podcast you're targeting all
the all the listeners in the world
with the same podcast and I'm putting
some more layers on that let's take that
content let's pay LinkedIn ads to reach
these 100 because we I cannot pay to
reach all of them so I need to make some
choices so while inbounds your podcast
is still attracting people and educating
people you're going with the marketing
budget to advertise to the most likely
to become your best customers and
by the way if you actually know who they
are why not give them a call because you
know the you have ways to know their
contacts right today you have ways to be
able to blueprint the account and know
who they are so if they're showing some
interest if they're already doing some
stuff do you really need to wait until
they request a demo well at some point
it might be just also common sense to
have someone call them and say hey I
have this that obviously is for you for
this and these reasons I have these
other customers that look just like you
and they are super happy do you want to
talk and if you are very relevant and
personalizing that message you will get
a certain reasonable
conversion rate that you are if you are
just spamming everyone with the same
message you don't get and and you know
that and you even might hurt your brand
by being completely off with your tone
of voice and your message and it just
sounds stupid and hurt your brand if you
can do it in a much more personalized
way that you can if you have a small
number if you as an SDR or an AE have
like 20 accounts that you're targeting
you can research them properly and you
can be very relevant and helpful for
them so it's turning this thing that
this outbound that became just Mass spam
and not helpful and just noise into
something that is helpful the same way
that we think about content and podcasts
as something that is creating value you
can try to do wealth Bond and create
value as well if you're really being
personalized
that's a nice way to separate ABM and
demand gen I appreciate that Fernando
and with that sir I want to thank you
very much for sharing your wisdom your
knowledge keeping everything actionable
and no fluff so appreciate you coming on
appreciate your
wisdom and with that do share more about
have one tuning in can learn more about
yourself your company and the best way
to get in touch
so the company is raidu expense
management software so if you have any
needs in that area just go to raidu.com
and reach out request it there
about
myself I was more active on LinkedIn
before I might be again in the future
but it's the easiest way still to find
me and find my content is just look for
Fernando Morale on on LinkedIn uh I have
a Blog where I write not very
oftenal.org but really LinkedIn is the
place to meet me if you want if you want
to talk if you want to reach out to me
as well that's the best place Legend
you're too busy mate you're too busy
making ABM work magic for your business
that's the problem yes
that's true cool man we'll put all of
those links over in the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing and with that I
want to thank you once again for coming
on sir
thank you for having it no dramas and as
always if you enjoyed today's episode a
quick rating or review on your audio
podcast Channel goes a long way or if
you're on YouTube a subscribe is much
appreciated and with that we'll catch
you on the next episode for more no BS
actionable beating my B2B marketing tips
to grow business and grow your Revenue
catch you on the next one cheers